# cryptography-for-beginners (Math behind key exchange)
*Make sure that you installed cryptography package*
*Install cryptography package using "pip install cryptography" in command prompt*

This is a math based key exchange mechanism Diffie–Hellman
Diffie-Hellam is an key exchang emechanism which can be used to send cryptographic key between two parties
This simple python code helps to understand the basic math behind Diffie-Hellman key exchange mechanism

Let's say you and your friend want to share  same key so that you and your friend can encrypt and decrypt message using any symmetric key encryption method
for that you first need to share a same key. You didn't want to send that through any medium because it can be intercepted and read by anyone in that connection.
So we came up with an better. It uses simple modular arithmetic.

To make this mechanism work you need two key a public key and a private key
g -> usually a small prime number
n -> n is a big number usually 2000 - 4000 bits long

Let us take the famous example Alice and Bob
Alice has a private key -> a
and 
Bob has a private key -> b

Alice generates a  psudo key:
g^a mathematical operation may vary but the concept is the same.
     G(a) = (g^a)(mod n) -> This psudo key is generated by Alice and sent to Bob.
     now G(a) is a number with this number we don't get any valuable information, we don't know how many times it modulated.
     G(b) = (g^b)(mod n) -> This psudo key is generated by Bob and sent to Alice.
     The same for this number you can't get any valuable information from this number.
# Getting the same key
    When Bob gets the key G(a) he does simple calcualtion:
      ((g^a)(mod n))^b = (g^ab)(mod n)
    When Alice get the key G(b):
      (g^b)(mod n))^a = (g^ab)(mod n)
 # From the above calculation it is clear that Alice and Bob got the same key without leaking any valuable information.

 #Bonus 
 Example:
    say I want to encrypt the letter "b".
    I choose g = 2, a = 3 and n = 5
    assigning 7 to letter g as alphabetical order that is the g value.
    I can make a cipher coder by,
      (g^a)(mod n) = (2^3)(mod 5) = 3
    I will the number 4 to the other person on the end.
    They do,
      (3^3)(mod 5) = 2
    We know 2 = "b"
    Congraduations we just encrypted and decrypted a message.
      
     
     



